   #publisher Nairobi News » Feed Nairobi News » Comments Feed alternate
   alternate

   351K
   ____________________ Submit

     * HOME
     * TOP NEWS
     * SPORTS
     * LIFE
     * CHILLAX
     * BLOG
     * VIDEOS
     * GALLERY
     * BIZ

     * Raila to Uhuru: Brace yourself for tough times
     * Two police officers shot and killed in Kayole
     * IEBC wants MP Alice Wahome punished for harassing officer
     * Drama as MP confronts returning officer over election results –
       VIDEO
     * How KOT reacted to postponement of election in troubled counties
     * Shops looted, burnt in Kawangware – PHOTOS
     * CITY GIRL: We can’t all pretend to be friends but can we at least
       learn to tolerate each other?
     * IEBC postpones election in Nyanza counties

   ____________________ Submit

           City Hall on the spot as residents oppose new Gigiri hotel

  Posted on Mar 6, 2017 10436 Views

   City Hall , headquarters of the Nairobi county government. PHOTO | FILE
   City Hall , headquarters of the Nairobi county government. PHOTO | FILE
   By BRIAN NGUGI, b[email protected]

   Two upmarket Nairobi estates are up in arms against well-connected
   developers who are constructing multi-billion shilling properties in
   their neighbourhoods, contrary to construction and planning laws.

   The illegal buildings include a community centre with a religious
   temple in Loresho and a residential hotel in Gigiri, which has faced
   stiff opposition from the Gigiri Village Association.

   Residents say the hotel poses a security threat in the area as it is
   being built in breach of security regulations and requirements of
   controlled development in the affluent suburb that hosts the United
   Nations complex and several foreign embassies.

   In Loresho, religious group Stanakwasi Sangh Jain Community (SSJC),
   comprising 350 members in Kenya, is constructing a large commercial
   community centre next to Loresho Primary School despite strong
   opposition from residents.

   GREAT DANGER

   Peter Herman a community welfare member for Loresho residents
   association, who is leading the opposition, said the development posed
   great danger to neighbouring residential communities, including Loresho
   North, Loresho South, Kaumoni, Loresho Gardens, University of Nairobi
   houses on Kibagare Way.

   Already, residents say the ongoing construction has increased noise,
   traffic, caused unstable water supply, and depreciation of property
   values.

   On their part, Gigiri residents said the residential hotel posed a
   major security risk in the area that is populated by diplomatic
   missions, including the UN, American Embassy, Botswana High Commission
   and others, adding that  traffic build up on UN Avenue will have far
   reaching security implications in the area.

   “This proposed development will be a security risk as it will overlook
   the UN, American Embassy, Botswana High Commission and Moroccan
   Embassy. We believe it will infringe on our rights as residents to
   freedom of movement by causing massive traffic jams, pollution, noise
   and extra human traffic for a high end (Blue Zone as per Nairobi
   County) residential area,” said Gigiri Residents Association chairman
   David Awori.

   NOTHING DONE

   The association said it had brought the matter to the attention of city
   authorities, but nothing had been done.

   “We write you to request your office to revoke the licence for this
   development, which will not only be misplaced within its environment
   but will add to the deterioration of the estate,” the residents wrote
   to the Nairobi County government.

   The residents have questioned the Nairobi City County’s approval of the
   projects, saying the developer has used friends and relatives to get
   through agencies such as National Environment Management Authority
   (Nema).

   They claim the developer got approvals from Nema and Nairobi County
   authorities fraudulently using plot numbers that are untraceable on the
   deed plan for Gigiri.

   Besides, the development is located on Gigiri Drive but is
   misrepresented as located on UN Avenue.

   They now want the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions and the
   Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to probe the matter, alleging the
   developer attained approvals from authorities through collusion without
   their participation.

   ABOVE BOARD

   But reacting to the claims, developers for the projects refuted the
   claims, saying approval processes for the two projects have been above
   board.

   Businessman Praful Savla, who is the owner of the planned Gigiri
   residential hotel, insisted the project had complied with the
   environmental and security requirements of the area.

   “We got the necessary approvals and everything is above board,” said
   Munyua Mwaura, the project architect.

   Mr Mwaura accused the residents of sabotaging any new development in
   the area “oblivious of its growth needs.”

   “They want to retain the social environment of the area whereas the
   market dynamics for Nairobi have changed. They are living in the past,”
   he said.

   Mr Mwaura refuted claims that the development would be a traffic and
   security nightmare in the diplomatic area, saying a planned traffic
   survey would establish the truth.

   “We plan to use UN security standards for the development,” he said
   while refuting claims by residents that neighbouring embassies view the
   development as a security threat.

   ‘MALICIOUS RUMOURS’

   In Loresho, the religious grouping Stanakvasi Jain Sangh termed rising
   opposition to the development of a community centre as “malicious
   rumours.”

   It said the religious organisation had obtained all the statutory
   approvals as needed by the laws of Kenya, including the Nairobi County
   and Nema.

   “Originally, we used to own our community centre on Forest Road, which
   was bought by a church. This facility was regularly used by schools,
   businesses, colleges, artistes for various programmes and not once did
   we receive any complaint. We now have adequate funding to put up a new
   centre, which will be a state of the art facility, again to be used by
   a much wider community with facilities that are lacking in Kenya,” said
   Bharat Doshi, convener of the building project.

   Mr Doshi said the community centre would include gardens, function
   hall, meditation hall, kitchen facilities and an auditorium for
   performing arts.

   SSJC, chaired by Deepa Doshi, applied for change of user of plots No.
   9729/7, 9729/6 and 9729/2 May last year from residential to a religious
   temple.

   Area residents, however, say that building plans obtained in November
   give evidence of the fact, that it is not a temple with auxiliary
   facilities, but a large- scale commercial community centre with an
   auxiliary prayer room to host a wide variety of events.
   [editor954394831596482884-668x150.jpg]

   Talk to Nairobi News : Facebook || Twitter(@Nairobi_News) || Telegram:
       @nairobinews || Instagram: @nairobi_news || Snapchat: @nairobinews
       || Email: [email protected] || Phone: 0719 038 309

Latest Stories

     * Nasa leader Raila Odinga at Uhuru Park on October 25, 2017 where hy
       called on his supporters to boycott the October 26 presidential
       election. PHOTO | JEFF ANGOTE

  Raila to Uhuru: Brace yourself for tough times
       Nasa leader Raila Odinga now says he can only dialogue with
       President Uhuru Kenyatta on holding fresh elections in 90 days
       and...
       More
     * PHOTO | FILE

  Two police officers shot and killed in Kayole
       Two police officers were on Saturday morning found dead in Kayole
       having been shot dead by unknown people. The two who were...
       More
     * Kandara Member of Parliament Alice Wahome. PHOTO | JOSEPH KANYI

  IEBC wants MP Alice Wahome punished for harassing officer
       The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) wants
       Kandara MP Alice Wahome prosecuted for committing an electoral
       offence.
       More
     * Kandara Member of Parliament Alice Wahome. PHOTO | JOSEPH KANYI

  Drama as MP confronts returning officer over election results – VIDEO
       Fracas broke out in Kandara, Murang’a County, on Friday after the
       area MP Alice Wahome confronted the constituency’s returning
       officer over presidential...
       More
     * IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati giving an update on the results of
       the repeat presidential election at Bomas of Kenya. PHOTO | JEFF
       ANGOTE

  How KOT reacted to postponement of election in troubled counties
       Kenyans online have expressed varied reactions to an announcement
       by IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati postponing election in four
       Nyanza counties from Saturday.
       More
     * Anti-riot police officers attempt to disperse rioters in Kawangware
       slums in Nairobi, on October 27, 2017. PHOTO | REUTERS

  Shops looted, burnt in Kawangware – PHOTOS
       Several shops were razed down at at Kawangware 46 stage on Friday
       evening by a group of youths who also looted business...
       More

   Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus. blog
   comments powered by Disqus

     * Most Popular
     * Most Commented

     * Betty Kyallo deletes tweet on Nasa after reminder of her broken
       marriage94,297 views - 2 days ago
     * Tina Kagia speaks out on nasty breakup with comedian JB
       Masanduku58,370 views - 1 day ago
     * Video of Migori protesters on lunch break goes viral52,667 views -
       2 days ago
     * This is how Raila spent his time on Election Day50,250 views - 2
       days ago
     * Photo of weeping police officer moves Kenyans48,557 views - 19
       hours ago
     * Sakaja praised for ‘rescuing’ Nasa MP during ugly
       confrontation45,571 views - 2 days ago
     * Sharply dressed Githeri man reappears on Election Day45,063 views -
       2 days ago
     * Nasa-Jubilee ‘tea fight’ thrills social media41,596 views - 2 days
       ago
     * Stone throwing woman the darling of social media36,275 views - 19
       hours ago

Popular Threads

From Our Blog

     * Mathare MP Anthony Oluoch leads Nasa MPs to disrupt a press
       conference addressed by Jubilee MPs at the Sarova Panafric Hotel,
       Nairobi on Thursday, October 26, 2017. PHOTO | DENNIS ONSONGO

CITY GIRL: We can’t all pretend to be friends but can we at least learn to
tolerate each other?
       Posted on Oct 27, 2017
       I was not shocked when on Thursday evening, mature men behaved like
       10-year-olds in a school yard because they had a disagreement...
     * National Super Alliance (Nasa) supporters at a barricade point
       during their demonstration in Awasi, about 40km east from Kisumu,
       Kenya, on October 26, 2017, during Kenya's re-election voting. AFP
       | PHOTO

KENYAN ELECTION: Why must foreign media always focus on violence ‘hot spots’?
       Posted on Oct 26, 2017
       A sampling of headlines across the board by the international media
       all told the same story about the presidential election in
       Kenya;...

Video Gallery

   SNAPPY 7: With TV producer, music video director, J Blessing SNAPPY 7:
   With TV producer, music video director, J Blessing
   SNAPPY 7: With Justin Bradford, the white man of the ‘mbao mbao’
   sensation SNAPPY 7: With Justin Bradford, the white man of the ‘mbao
   mbao’ sensation
   NN XTRA: Why are men so quick to make U-turns in relationships? NN
   XTRA: Why are men so quick to make U-turns in relationships?
   NN XTRA: To what extent should you go to ‘test’ your future spouse? NN
   XTRA: To what extent should you go to ‘test’ your future spouse?
   SNAPPY 7: With radio presenter and actor, Nick Ndeda SNAPPY 7: With
   radio presenter and actor, Nick Ndeda
   NN XTRA: Have parents failed in the upbringing of their children? NN
   XTRA: Have parents failed in the upbringing of their children?
   SNAPPY 7: With poet, Tessy Aura SNAPPY 7: With poet, Tessy Aura
   NN XTRA: 100 bob wedding couple close down their mini ‘shopping mall’
   NN XTRA: 100 bob wedding couple close down their mini ‘shopping mall’
   SNAPPY 7: With Miss Politician’s main actress, Judy Maina SNAPPY 7:
   With Miss Politician’s main actress, Judy Maina
   NN XTRA: What do you do to get over your exes? NN XTRA: What do you do
   to get over your exes?

   NEWS ENTERTAINMENT LIFE SPORT BLOG MULTIMEDIA

   News

   Entertainment

   Business

   Living

   Videos

   Photos

     * Blogs
     * Sports
     * Jobs

   Copyright © 2017 Nation Media Group. All rights reserved.
